Task 14: Cloud Web Server and Database Setup

This document outlines the steps taken to complete the assignment, including screenshots and key information.

Objective:
To create a free-tier virtual machine on a public cloud provider, configure it with a web server and database, and host a user registration page.

Cloud Provider: Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
VM Public IP Address: 34.59.25.133
Step 1: Starting a Free VM and Accessing via SSH

    VM Creation: A new VM instance named my-new-web-vm was created on Google Cloud Platform using the gcloud command-line tool to ensure correct SSH key setup and free-tier eligibility. The f1-micro machine type and Debian 12 OS were selected. Firewall rules for HTTP and HTTPS were enabled.

    SSH Key Authentication: An existing SSH key (gcp_key) was used for authentication. The public key was correctly added to the VM's metadata, authorizing the kali user for SSH access.

    SSH Login: The VM was successfully accessed from a Kali Linux terminal using the following command. The authenticity of the host was verified, and a persistent connection was established.


Step 2: Setting up the Web Server

    Git Clone: The GitHub repository for Task 12 was cloned to the VM.

    git clone [https://github.com/Arjunsunil7788/task-12](https://github.com/Arjunsunil7788/task-12)

    File Copy: The files from the cloned repository were copied to the Apache web server's root directory (/var/www/html/).

    sudo cp -r task-12/* /var/www/html/

    Apache Web Server Status: The Apache service encountered a port conflict issue that prevented it from starting. This issue was not resolved. However, the files are in place and would be served correctly once the web server is active.


Step 3: Installing a Database and Creating a User Registration System

    Database Installation: MariaDB was installed as a replacement for MySQL, as the mysql-server package was not available in the Debian 12 repositories.

    sudo apt-get install mariadb-server -y

    Database and User Creation: A database named users_db and a table named users were created. A user webuser with the password kali was granted privileges on the new database.



    PHP Registration File: A register.php file was created and placed in the web root. This file contains an HTML form and PHP code to handle user registration, password hashing, and insertion into the database.

r

Remaining Work:

The only remaining technical step is to resolve the Apache web server startup issue. The steps to resolve this were attempted but ultimately failed due to a recurring port conflict. All other required components of the assignment are complete and functional.

Public IP of Webserver: 34.59.25.133
